Active Workspace

Streamlined and intuitive PLM user experience 
anytime, anywhere, on any device

users involved in your product lifecycle. 
Active Workspace makes Teamcenter 
accessible by providing a streamlined 
and intuitive PLM user experience 
anytime, anywhere, on any modern 
computing device.

Benefits
• Increase productivity by finding
the right information, in the
context of the task at hand, faster
and easier than ever before

• Avoid costly mistakes and make

smarter decisions by seeing the big
picture in greater clarity

• Reach your extended enterprise

users and harness their knowledge
by providing simple and intuitive
access to PLM anytime, anywhere,
on any modern computing device

Features
• Clean and simple, mobile friendly

user experience

• Web-based platform accessible on
any modern computing device
without a client or plug-in
installation

• Context-aware summary views

• Configurable user interface themes

• Dynamic, configurable home page

• View assignments and participate

in workflows

• View change information

• Create and revise items, upload
files and edit object properties

Summary
Throughout the complex product life-
cycle, you are expected to make good 
decisions in the context of a large 
amount of input and data, often from a 
variety of sources. Active Workspace 
from Siemens Digital Industries 
Software is an innovative web-based 
client platform that simplifies product 
lifecycle management (PLM) for all 

Find what you need faster
Do you spend a lot of time searching for 
the information you need to complete 
your work? Does it seem like you need 
to know exactly what you’re looking for, 
and exactly how to look for it, before 
you can actually find what you need?

Active Workspace’s powerful search and 
filtering capabilities visually present 
search results in logical groups, making 

If you know how to shop using Amazon, eBay, Google, etc. you are already know how to find what 
you’re looking for using Active Workspace. Searching in Active Workspace is simple but not limited. 
Familiar search, filter, and navigation capabilities help you find what you need faster than ever before. 

siemens.com/teamcenter

Active Workspace

TEAMCENTER

it easy for you to drill-down and browse 
to find what you need, faster than ever 
before. Intelligent charting, filtering on 
properties, shape and classification as 
well as results ranking capabilities allow 
you to find the information you need 
without having to know about how the 
data is structured within the PLM 
system.

When relevant PLM data is scattered 
across multiple systems, Active 
Workspace helps aggregate this data 
into a single location so you don’t have 
to waste time searching in multiple 
locations.

Active Workspace helps you find the 
right information, in the proper context 
of the task at hand, easier than ever 
before.

Make smarter decisions
Finding what you need is only half the 
battle. You need to understand the 
information you find, in the proper 
context, to make decisions.

Active Workspace enables you to access 
information in the context of your role 

and the tasks that you’re trying to 
accomplish, proactively presenting you 
with only relevant information. Active 
Workspace helps you make smarter 
decisions by cutting through the clutter 
and allowing you to see the big picture.

Powerful capabilities such as Structure 
Browser, Relationship Browser as well 
as Reporting & Analytics allow you to 
quickly and visually identify critical 
issues as well as understand and navi-
gate various relationships between 
different pieces of data. 

Active Workspace makes it easy for 
users not familiar with the intricacies of 
PLM to participate in PLM – reviewing 
tasks in a workflow, signing off on 
assigned tasks, submitting new docu-
ments into a workflow, submitting 
problem reports, visualize and analyze 
3D data and more.

Using Active Workspace, you can avoid 
costly mistakes and make smarter 
decisions because you can now see the 
big picture in greater clarity.

Features continued
• Submit issues, problem reports

and change requests

• Full-text search on files and file

contents

• Intelligent charting logically and
visually groups search results for
easy navigation

• Context-based filters on search

results

• Shape search finds parts that are

geometrically similar

• Search and filter data based on

classification attributes

• Find and aggregate relevant PLM
data stored in external systems

• Save frequently used searches

• Breadcrumb navigation

• Launch information into the
appropriate authoring tool in
context

• Visualize large and complex 3D

product data without any
installation

• Preview requirements and

specifications

• Where used/referenced and

traceability tracking

• Interactive relationship browsing

• Electronic work instructions

• View and access reports and
dashboards with Teamcenter
Reporting and Analytics

For people responsible for product planning, you can author schedules, tasks and requirements in 
Active Workspace, and collaborate with upstream and downstream stakeholders to be sure all 
product-related decisions are aligned.

PLM anytime, anywhere
Active Workspace allows you to reach 
your extended enterprise users and 
harness their knowledge by giving them 
access to simple and intuitive PLM when 
and where they need it.

Using Active Workspace enables you to 
access Teamcenter anytime, anywhere 
by simply opening a browser on your 
desktop, tablet or smartphone. It runs 
on any operating system, any browser 
and any modern computing devices, 
with no installation needed and no 
special plug-in requirements to simplify 
deployment. Active Workspace’s touch-
enabled, intuitive interface is optimized 
to support both mobile and desktop 
devices. The interface can be easily 
tailored to fit your business, allowing 
you to minimize user training and foster 
quick adoption throughout your enter-
prise. By embedding Active Workspace 
into applications such as Microsoft® 
Office and NX™ software, you can 
access powerful PLM capabilities of 
Teamcenter from within familiar 
applications.

Using Active Workspace makes PLM 
available when and where it’s needed, 
allowing you to simplify user adoption 
and realize faster return-on-investment.

TEAMCENTER

It all starts on your home page. Your Active Workspace home page is the centralized location for all 
your tasks. Pin items to your home page that you use most frequently, like you do a task or toolbar.  
A familiar simple search box is always available when you need it. 

Siemens Digital Industries Software
siemens.com/plm

Americas  +1 314 264 8499 
Europe 
Asia-Pacific  +852 2230 3333 

+44 (0) 1276 413200

Restricted © Siemens 2019. Siemens, the Siemens 
logo and SIMATIC IT are registered trade marks of 
Siemens AG. Camstar, D-Cubed, Femap, Fibersim, 
Geolus, GO PLM, I-deas, JT, NX, Parasolid, Polarion, 
Simcenter, Solid Edge, Syncrofit, Teamcenter and 
Tecnomatix are trademarks or registered trade-
marks of Siemens Product Lifecycle Management 
Software Inc. or its subsidiaries or affiliates in the 
United States and in other countries. All other 
trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks 
belong to their respective holders. 
26883-C10  6/19  C

